---
title: Idea and Business Opportunity
image: img/timeline/idea.jpg
notes: show mashing of analog and digital. not meshing with each other.
---
*Bring combined sensor and SaaS technology to industries that have been slow to benefit from the rapid pace of technology innovation over the past decade.*\\
\\
"Analog" industries such as construction, forestry, trucking, fisheries, manufacturing, oil and gas, sanitation, and warehousing have not benefited from technological innovation as much as service-based industries. These "analog" industries require physical hardware to interface with the software world. But hardware development is expensive, complex, and iteration takes too long compared to software development.\\
\\
But now hardware development is changing. Prototyping cycles have shortened, electronic components can be ordered in small quantities quickly and cost effectively, and there has been a surge in simple-to-program microcontrollers. The production cost for a simple wireless sensor device can be less than $25, and hardware development time can be reduced from a year to months or even weeks! The plethora of Internet-of-Things consumer devices is one result of these changes ([fitness trackers, wifi-connected light bulbs, smart refrigerators](#modal2){:data-toggle="modal"}). However the path to profit for Internet-of-Things consumer devices is not very clear. Are people really willing to pay a monthly service fee for their refrigerator? Or install a new phone app for every device in their house?\\
\\
On the other hand, there is a clear value proposition for Internet-of-Things innovations for businesses, and more specifically, "analog" businesses.  Internet-of-Things devices and services can help them respond to customer service problems faster, mitigate business risks, reduce labor expenses, reduce energy expenses, improve coordination with suppliers, improve understanding of equipment health. The list goes on and on.
